I have had the absolute pleasure of
being part of the Toast Masters
international program for the last eight
years but from time to time I hear
people say things about Toast Masters
and they are simply untrue so in today's
video I am going to dispel four myths
about the Toast Masters program what's
going on everyone my name is Wade
Patterson and I am passionate about
impactful communication and if that's
something you're hoping to learn more
about how to be a great communicator
consider subscribing to my channel so
let's dive into these four myths that
people have about the Toastmasters
program and the first myth that people
have is that every Club is the same I've
had the opportunity to attend a few
different Toast Masters clubs and I can
tell you from the agenda to the meeting
length to the style of the clubs there
are many different variables that makes
each Club unique so shop around the
different Toast Masters clubs which may
be available to you a huge myth about
Toast Masters is that it only helps you
improve your speaking skills once you go
to a few Toastmasters meetings you start
to realize that the first half of the
meeting is all about prepared speeches
but the second half of the meeting is
much more focused on
evaluations and guess what in order to
give a great evaluation you have to be a
a very good listener Beyond improving
your listening skills Toast Masters also
has Pathways and some of those paths or
assignments within paths focus on
leadership and even the very structure
of a toast Master's Club has various
leadership positions things like the VP
of Education or the president of the
club or the secretary or the Sergeant at
Arms these are all leadership positions
that allow a club to be successful so if
you're wanting to improve listening
skills leadership skills or of course
speaking skills themselves Toast Masters
is a great choice for you another common
myth about the Toastmasters program is
that you have to speak at your first
meeting now I want to encourage you or
perhaps challenge you if you are going
to a brand new club be prepared to
introduce yourself if that's not asking
too much be prepared to give a couple of
words of why you're there what you're
interested in achieving and maybe just a
really brief introduction about yourself
but it's not necessary if you're someone
who's absolutely frightened about the
thought of public speaking and you
simply just want to attend and be a fly
on the wall you can tell whoever it is
at the Toastmasters Club when you come
into the meeting let them know just say
you know what I'd be more comfortable
today being an observer rather than
speaking myself Toast Masters will be
incredibly understanding after all once
upon a time they were in your shoes and
they were new attendees to the club as
well and some people weren't comfortable
with that either so if you want to go to
Toast Masters but you absolutely don't
want to be put on the spot that's okay
however like I said going back to that
initial challenge if you can be prepared
to say a couple things of why you're
there because the Club will benefit
they'll learn a little bit more about
you and that may help you build those
relationships after the meeting perhaps
the biggest myth about Toast Masters is
that it's something you can complete or
graduate or be finished with after
you've done it for a certain period of
time I've had many people say to me oh
yeah I did Toast Masters like 10 years
ago it was a good experience but I but
I've done it and to me it's such a crazy
thought and I always use the example
that's like somebody saying oh yeah I
worked out 10 years ago I went to a gym
I had a gym pass I have already done
that it was a great experience but I've
done it I'm guessing if that's the case
that person would not be in very good
shape still if they haven't worked out
in 10 years you lose that muscle memory
you lose that cardio ability because
exercise requires you to do it on a
repeated basis bis over time and I would
strongly bring this correlation to
public speaking as well that these are
skills that you have to keep sharp if
you want to be a great speaker in front
of a crowd you need to have that
repetition you need to practice on a
regular basis and if you don't you can
probably still get by but your skill is
not going to be at the same level as if
you went and attended those clubs on a
regular basis to recap the four myths
that many people have about Toast
Masters that are simply not true myth
number one not every Club is the same
each Club has its own flavor and if you
have the ability please shop around and
choose the best one myth number two it
only helps with public speaking skills
simply untrue of course it helps with
that but it also helps with your
listening skills through things like
evaluation one I didn't even mention
earlier is your ability for impromptu
speaking or getting questions on the bot
through something called table topics
and it also helps you build leadership
skills through various Pathways modules
but also through opportunities to be
part of the executive within your own
club the third myth is that you don't
have to speak at your first meeting if
you're not comfortable doing so you can
bow out nobody's going to get mad
nobody's going to kick you out but the
little bonus challenge is I encourage
you to try to say a few words at least
to introduce yourself S I think it's
going to make for a better more
comfortable experience for you attending
your first meeting and the final myth
that people have about Toast Masters is
that it's something you can be done with
you can go for a year and you're
perfectly fine for the rest of your life
and the truth is you may accomplish a
few things you may grow a skill set but
if you want to be a really strong public
speaker poast Masters my friends is a
lifelong Endeavor or at least it could
be I know many people who have become
dtms distinguished Toast Masters and
repeated that process time and time
again and that is the beauty about Toast
Masters it's something we can
continually do we can continually grow
within the program and that's a great
thing I hope you enjoyed this video on
some of the myths about Toast Masters
did I miss any let me know in the
comments also I would really appreciate
it if you subscribe to my channel turn
on those notifications so you never miss
a video every subscription really helps
me put out this type of content thank
you so much and I'll catch you on the
next video people are more scared of
public speaking than they are of
dying is it just me or is that wrong hey
everyone my name is Wade Patterson and I
am passionate about impactful
communication my YouTube channel has
helped hundreds of thousands of people
improve their public speaking skills and
I am thrilled to release my first ever
course which has taken my decade of
learning about how to become a better
public speaker and boiled it down to
this theme of mastering the five
Essentials of public speaking I know for
a fact that if you can dial in these
five elements and perfect them you are
going to be a phenomenal public speaker
Head and Shoulders Above the Rest just
by being aware of these things by taking
the time to digest the information in
this course practice it and then put it
to action through your speak is you are
going to become a better public speaker
as a bonus in this course I sit down
with the world's greatest freestyle
rapper Harry Mack and one of the
greatest keynote speakers in the world
Shan kugo and I get their tips firsthand
of what makes them incredible at what
they do if you agree that public
speaking definitely should not be
scarier than dying sign up for my course
you won't regret it